

### 2.3 Search Path

By default, the preprocessor looks for header files included by the quote form of the directive #include "file" first relative to the directory of the current file, and then in a preconfigured list of standard system directories. For example, if /usr/include/sys/stat.h contains #include "types.h", GCC looks for types.h first in /usr/include/sys, then in its usual search path.

For the angle-bracket form #include <file>, the preprocessor’s default behavior is to look only in the standard system directories. The exact search directory list depends on the target system, how GCC is configured, and where it is installed. You can find the default search directory list for your version of CPP by invoking it with the -v option. For example,

cpp -v /dev/null -o /dev/null

There are a number of command-line options you can use to add additional directories to the search path. The most commonly-used option is -Idir, which causes dir to be searched after the current directory (for the quote form of the directive) and ahead of the standard system directories. You can specify multiple -I options on the command line, in which case the directories are searched in left-to-right order.

If you need separate control over the search paths for the quote and angle-bracket forms of the ‘#include’ directive, you can use the -iquote and/or -isystem options instead of -I. See Invocation, for a detailed description of these options, as well as others that are less generally useful.

If you specify other options on the command line, such as -I, that affect where the preprocessor searches for header files, the directory list printed by the -v option reflects the actual search path used by the preprocessor.

Note that you can also prevent the preprocessor from searching any of the default system header directories with the -nostdinc option. This is useful when you are compiling an operating system kernel or some other program that does not use the standard C library facilities, or the standard C library itself. 

for more info, look at [here](http://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/cpp/Search-Path.html)

### 3.3 Summary

 #include <stdio.h>

When the include file is in brackets the preprocessor first searches in paths specified via the -I flag. Then it searches the standard include paths (see the above link, and use the -v flag to test on your system).

 #include "myFile.h"

When the include file is in quotes the preprocessor first searches in the current directory, then paths specified by -iquote, then -I paths, then the standard paths.

-nostdinc can be used to prevent the preprocessor from searching the standard paths at all.

Environment variables can also be used to add search paths.

When compiling if you use the -v flag you can see the search paths used.





gcc is a rich and complex "orchestrating" program that calls many other programs to perform its duties. For the specific purpose of seeing where #include "goo" and #include <zap> will search on your system, I recommend:

$ touch a.c
$ gcc -v -E a.c
 ...
    #include "..." search starts here:
    #include <...> search starts here:
    /usr/local/include
    /usr/lib/gcc/i686-apple-darwin9/4.0.1/include
    /usr/include
    /System/Library/Frameworks (framework directory)
    /Library/Frameworks (framework directory)
    End of search list.
    # 1 "a.c"

This is one way to see the search lists for included files, including (if any) directories into which #include "..." will look but #include <...> won't. This specific list I'm showing is actually on Mac OS X (aka Darwin) but the commands I recommend will show you the search lists (as well as interesting configuration details that I've replaced with ... here;-) on any system on which gcc runs properly.





Karl answered your search-path question, but as far as the "source of the files" goes, one thing to be aware of is that if you install the libfoo package and want to do some development with it (i.e., use its headers), you will also need to install libfoo-dev. The standard library header files are already in /usr/include, as you saw.

Note that some libraries with a lot of headers will install them to a subdirectory, e.g., /usr/include/openssl. To include one of those, just provide the path without the /usr/include part, for example:

    #include <openssl/aes.h>



The \#include files of gcc are stored in /usr/include . The standard include files of g++ are stored in /usr/include/c++.